Add “Modern Web Debugging in Chrome DevTools” and “Case Study: Better Angular Debugging with DevTools” posts (#3600)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/devtools-better-angular-debugging/index.md

{% endAside %}

In practice, Chrome DevTools can automatically hide code identified as such in stack traces, the Sources tree, the Quick Open dialog, and also improve the stepping and resuming behavior in the debugger.

{% Img src="image/AeNB0cHNDkYPUYzDuv8gInYA9rY2/nqkhr5MgrFyXhA8RTDC7.gif", alt="An animated GIF showing DevTools before and after. Note how in the after image DevTools shows the Authored Code in the tree, no longer suggests any of the framework files in the “Quick Open” menu, and shows a much cleaner stack trace on the right.", width="800", height="511" %}

{% Aside %}
The outcome for authors is covered in more detail in [“Modern web debugging in Chrome DevTools: “Just my code””](/blog/devtools-modern-web-debugging#just-my-code).
{% endAside %}

### The `x_google_ignoreList` source map extension

In source maps, the new `x_google_ignoreList` field refers to the `sources` array, and lists the indices of all the known third-party sources in that source map. When parsing the source map, **Chrome DevTools will use this to figure out which sections of the code should be ignore-listed.**

{% Aside %}

> You can learn more about source map extensions [here](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html#h.ghqpj1ytqjbm)

Reviewer: Learn more about [source map extensions](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html#h.ghqpj1ytqjbm).

{% endAside %}

Shown below is a source map for a generated file `out.js`. There are two original `sources` that contributed to generating the output file, namely `foo.js` and `lib.js`, the former being something that the web site developer wrote, and the latter being a framework that they used.

```json
{
  "version" : 3,
  "file": "out.js",
  "sourceRoot": "",
  "sources": ["foo.js", "lib.js"],
  "sourcesContent": ["...", "..."],
  "names": ["src", "maps", "are", "fun"],
  "mappings": "A,AAAB;;ABCDE;"
}
```

> The `sourcesContent` is included for both of these original sources, and Chrome DevTools would display these files by default across the Debugger: as files in the Sources tree, as results in the Quick Open dialog, or as mapped call frame locations in error stack traces, while paused on a breakpoint, and while stepping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `sourcesContent` is included for both of these original sources and Chrome DevTools would display these files by default across the Debugger: 

- As files in the Sources tree.
- As results in the Quick Open dialog.
-  As mapped call frame locations in error stack traces while paused on a breakpoint and while stepping.
```

As of [Angular v14.1.0](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/releases/tag/14.1.0), the contents of the `node_modules` and `webpack` folders have been marked as _“to ignore”_.

This was achieved through [a change in `angular-cli`](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/commit/b5f6d862b95afd0ec42d9b3968e963f59b1b1658) by [creating a plugin that hooks into  webpack’s `Compiler` module](https://webpack.js.org/api/compiler-hooks/)

The [webpack plugin](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/blob/main/packages/angular_devkit/build_angular/src/webpack/plugins/devtools-ignore-plugin.ts) that our engineers created hooks into the `PROCESS_ASSETS_STAGE_DEV_TOOLING` stage and populates the `x_google_ignoreList` field in the source maps for the final assets  that webpack generates and the browser loads.

```js
const map = JSON.parse(mapContent) as SourceMap;
const ignoreList = [];

for (const [index, path] of map.sources.entries()) {
  if (path.includes('/node_modules/') || path.startsWith('webpack/')) {
    ignoreList.push(index);
  }
}

map[`x_google_ignoreList`] = ignoreList;
compilation.updateAsset(name, new RawSource(JSON.stringify(map)));
```

## Linked stack traces

> Stack traces answer the question of _“how did I get here”_, but oftentimes this is from the machine’s perspective, and not necessarily something that matches the developer’s perspective or their mental model of the application runtime. This is especially true when some operations are scheduled to happen asynchronously later: it could still be interesting to know the “root cause” or the scheduling side of such operations, but that’s exactly something that won’t be part of a synchronous stack trace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stack traces answer the question of _“how did I get here”_, but often this is from the machine’s perspective and not necessarily something that matches the developer’s perspective or their mental model of the application runtime. This is especially true when some operations are scheduled to happen asynchronously later. It could still be interesting to know the “root cause” or the scheduling side of such operations but that’s exactly something that won’t be part of a synchronous stack trace.
```

> V8 internally has a mechanism for keeping track of such asynchronous tasks when standard browser scheduling primitives are used, such as `setTimeout`. This is done by default in those cases, so the developers can inspect these already! But in more complex projects, it’s not as simple as that, especially when using a framework with more advanced scheduling mechanisms—for example, one that performs zone tracking, custom task queueing, or that splits updates into several units of work that are run over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
V8 internally has a mechanism for keeping track of such asynchronous tasks when standard browser scheduling primitives are used, such as `setTimeout`. This is done by default in those cases, so the developers can inspect these already! But in more complex projects, it’s not as simple as that, especially when using a framework with more advanced scheduling mechanisms. For example, a mechanism that performs zone tracking, custom task queueing, or splits updates into several units of work that run over time.
```

To address this, DevTools exposes a mechanism called the “Async Stack Tagging API” on the `console` object, that enables framework developers to hint both the locations where operations are scheduled as well as where these operations are executed.

{% Aside %}
The Async Stack Tagging API is available in Chrome DevTools starting with Chrome 106.
{% endAside %}

### The Async Stack Tagging API

Without Async Stack Tagging, stack traces for code that is asynchronously executed in complex ways by frameworks, shows up with no connection to the code where it was scheduled.

{% Img src="image/AeNB0cHNDkYPUYzDuv8gInYA9rY2/R3R4rAjQCSqe1qKmAENC.png", alt="A stack trace of some async executed code with no information about when it was scheduled. It only shows the stack trace starting from `requestAnimationFrame` but holds no information from when it was scheduled.", width="512", height="262" %}

> With Async Stack Tagging it is possible to provide this context, and the stack trace looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Async Stack Tagging, it is possible to provide this context and the stack trace looks like this:
```

{% Img src="image/AeNB0cHNDkYPUYzDuv8gInYA9rY2/YYi8lLXUbAf4aOZ3kBG7.png", alt="A stack trace of some async executed code with information about when it was scheduled. Note how, unlike before, it includes `businessLogic` and `schedule` in the stack trace.", width="512", height="345" %}

To achieve this, use a new [`console` method](/docs/devtools/console/api/) named `console.createTask()` which the Async Stack Tagging API provides. Its signature is as follows:

```js
interface Console {
  createTask(name: string): Task;
}

interface Task {
  run<T>(f: () => T): T;
}
```

> Invoking `console.createTask()` returns a `Task` instance which you can later use to run the async code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `console.createTask()` calls returns a `Task` instance that you can later use to run the async code.
```

```js
// Task Creation
const task = console.createTask(name);

// Task Execution
task.run(f);
```

> The asynchronous operations can also be nested, and the “root causes” will be displayed in the stack trace in sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The asynchronous operations can also be nested and the “root causes” will be displayed in the stack trace in sequence.
```

> Tasks can be run any number of times, and the work payload can differ between each run. The call stack at the scheduling site will be remembered until the task object is garbage collected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tasks can be run any number of times and the work payload can differ between each run. The call stack at the scheduling site will be remembered until the task object is garbage collected.
```

{% Aside %}
This example is covered in more detail in [“Modern web debugging in Chrome DevTools: Linked Stack Traces”](/blog/devtools-modern-web-debugging#linked-stack-traces).
{% endAside %}

### The Async Stack Tagging API in Angular

In Angular, changes have been made to [NgZone](https://angular.io/guide/zone) – Angular’s execution context that persists across async tasks.

When scheduling a task it uses `console.createTask()` when available. The resulting `Task` instance is stored for further use. Upon invoking the task, NgZone will use the stored `Task` instance to run it.

These changes landed in Angular’s NgZone 0.11.8 through pull requests [#46693](https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/46693) and [#46958](https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/46958).

{% Aside %}
The [PR to use this updated version also in `angular-cli`](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/pull/23750) is expected to land soon.
{% endAside %}

## Friendly Call Frames

> Frameworks often generate code from all kinds of templating languages when building a project, such as Angular templates, or JSX templates, that turn HTML-looking code into plain JavaScript code that eventually runs in the browser. Sometimes, these kinds of generated functions are given names that aren’t very friendly – either single letter names after they’re minified, or some obscure or unfamiliar name even when they’re not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Frameworks often generate code from all kinds of templating languages when building a project, such as Angular or JSX templates that turn HTML-looking code into plain JavaScript that eventually runs in the browser. Sometimes, these kinds of generated functions are given names that aren’t very friendly — either single letter names after they’re minified or some obscure or unfamiliar names even when they’re not.
```

In Angular it’s not uncommon to see call frames with names such as `AppComponent_Template_app_button_handleClick_1_listener` in stack traces.

{% Img src="image/AeNB0cHNDkYPUYzDuv8gInYA9rY2/uZRLE8JDRbS0YUTplPxt.png", alt="Screenshot of stack trace with an auto-generated function name.", width="800", height="529" %}

> To address this, Chrome DevTools now supports renaming these functions through source maps: if a source map has a name entry for the start of a function scope (that is, the left paren of the parameter list) of a function, the call frame should display that name in the stack trace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address this, Chrome DevTools now supports renaming these functions through source maps. If a source map has a name entry for the start of a function scope (that is, the left paren of the parameter list), the call frame should display that name in the stack trace.
```

### Friendly Call Frames in Angular

Renaming call frames in Angular is an ongoing effort. We expect these improvements to land gradually over time.

While parsing the HTML templates that authors have written, the Angular compiler generates TypeScript code, which is eventually transpiled into JavaScript code that the browser loads and runs.

As part of this code generation process, source maps are also created. We are currently exploring ways of including function names in the “names” field of source maps, and referencing those names in the mappings between the generated code and original code.

> For example, if a function for an event listener is generated and its name is either unfriendly or removed during minification, source maps can now include the more friendly name for this function in the “names” field, and the mapping for the beginning of the function scope can now refer to this name (that is, the left paren of the parameter list). Chrome DevTools will then use these names to rename call frames in stack traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if a function for an event listener is generated and its name is either unfriendly or removed during minification, source maps can now include the more friendly name for this function in the “names” field and the mapping for the beginning of the function scope can now refer to this name (that is, the left paren of the parameter list). Chrome DevTools will then use these names to rename call frames in stack traces.
```

## Looking ahead

Using Angular as a test pilot to verify our work has been a wonderful experience. We would love to hear from framework developers and [provide us feedback on these extension points](https://goo.gle/call-stacks-feedback).

> There are more areas that we would like to explore, in particular how to improve the profiling experience in DevTools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are more areas that we would like to explore. In particular, how to improve the profiling experience in DevTools.
```
